[Music]
these calls announce the start of a raid
into land controls by their neighbors as
they leave their call zone the patrol
goes silent occasion is stopping to
listen signs of the enemy are detected
and examined closely
the chimp militia are now at the very
edge of their territory all need to be
on maximum alert
they must wait and listen an unfamiliar
chimp call raises the tension it's an
uncertain time the size of the rival
group is as yet unknown not far away
their neighbors are feeding in the fig
tree oblivious to the approaching
dangers the patrol moves off with a
sense of purpose they must remain silent
until they close in on their rivals
[Music]
the attack is on to intimidate their
opponents the aggressive scream and drum
on butter fruits several males corner an
enemy female it's a ferocious attack and
she's lucky to escape with her life
[Music]
others are not so fortunate the battle
one a grisly scene unfolds an enemy
youngster has been caught and killed the
carcass is shared between members of the
group and eaten killing a competitor
makes sense if you want to protect your
food supply
but exactly why they cannibalize the
dead chimp is not fully understood it
may simply be a chance for some extra
protein the character of the forest
changes as English enemies becoming ever
darker and damper favoring different
kinds of animals and plants less than 2%
of the sunlight reaches the floor but
even here there is extraordinary variety
in the great island of New Guinea there
are 42 different species of
birds-of-paradise each more bizarre of
the month
[Music]
this forest is so rich that nourishing
food can be gathered very quickly that
leaves the male six-plumed
bird-of-paradise with time to
concentrate on other matters like
tidying up his display area everything
must be and span very impressive
but no one is watching the superb
bird-of-paradise caused to attract the
female and he has more luck but what
does he have to do to really impress her
[Music]
she retires to consider her verdict it's
hard not to feel deflated when even your
best isn't good enough in Western
Australia these dolphins have taken on
an even tougher challenge the fish have
taken refuge cliffs of the beach where
the water is only a few centimetres deep
Kayle slapping is a method dolphins
often used to stun their prayer but it
doesn't seem to work here
the fish are tantalisingly close but
they're still out of reach so the
Dolphins try another technique
vigorously pumping their tails they work
up some speed and then they hydroplane
[Applause]
[Music]
their momentum carries them right
through the shallowest waters and onto
the fish
now they're in real danger of being
stranded but fortune favors the brave
[Music]
younger dolphins lie alongside watching
but so far only eight individuals here
have mastered this daring technique
[Music]
reunited at last the mother sees her
chick for the first time she's keen to
start parenting but the father needs
persuading to surrender the chick he's
been caring for all winter he must now
put his chick at risk in these
temperatures it could freeze in seconds
the male will have to let go
eventually the transfer to the mother is
safely made
[Music]
the chicks grow quickly on a diet of
fish and squid
[Music]
soon they're keen to explore that always
with mother in terror
this trick is less fortunate its mother
has not returned to claim it another
orphan is searching for a new family but
this female already has a chick of her
own
some orphans receive too much mothering
from penguins whose own chicks have not
survived the urge to parent is so strong
that they will compete with one another
to adopt any chick they find many of
these squabbles end in tragedy as the
portrait is trampled to death
those chicks that do have parents
quickly learn survival skills even in
spring they must huddle together for
warmth
just as their fathers did in the depths
of winter
a group of chicks has got lost in the
blizzard cold and disorientated they
search for the colony
[Music]
it will not be long before the storm
claims its first victims
[Music]
by early summer the chicks are
surprisingly well-developed
and now look ready to take on the world
those that survive their first year have
the best possible start in life thanks
to the extraordinary hardships endured
by their parents parents who battled
with the Antarctic winter and won there
will be no easy meals on this island
walruses are the largest seals in the
world they weigh over a ton and are
armed with tusks a metre long
[Music]
exhausted from his shrim the bear must
regain his strength
the next day a sea fog shrouds the
island the Wallis's sense that they're
in danger
using the fog as cover the bear
approaches the herd the adults close
ranks around their young presenting a
wall of blubber and hide he tests the
bear but it stands firm it appears that
the world's largest land carnivore has
met his match
[Music]
there must be a in the armor
somewhere
[Music]
not here
this female walrus is shielding her
puppy if he can just prise her off
[Music]
the bear's claws and teeth can't
penetrate her thick hide
[Music]
with the herd retreating to water the
bear must move quickly
[Music]
having failed with one he heads straight
for another
[Music]
the chance of his first meal in months
is slipping away
[Music]
he seems increasingly desperate
it's now or never he must avoid the
stabbing tusks if he's to win
[Music]
the flailing walrus is immensely
powerful and drags the bear away from
the shallows towards the safety of the
herd
[Music]
it slips from his grasp